
1. Diabet Med. 2009 Jun;26(6):628-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02732.x.

A Ubiquitous Chronic Disease Care system using cellular phones and the internet.

Yoo HJ(1), Park MS, Kim TN, Yang SJ, Cho GJ, Hwang TG, Baik SH, Choi DS, Park GH,
Choi KM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine,
Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

AIMS: The rapidly increasing prevalence of chronic diseases is an important
challenge to healthcare systems worldwide. To improve the quality and efficiency 
of chronic disease care, we investigated the effectiveness and applicability of
the Ubiquitous Chronic Disease Care (UCDC) system using cellular phones and the
internet for overweight patients with both Type 2 diabetes and hypertension.
METHODS: We conducted a randomized, controlled clinical trial over 3 months that 
included 123 patients at a university hospital and a community public health
centre.
RESULTS: After 12 weeks, there were significant improvements in HbA(1c) in the
intervention group (7.6 +/- 0.9% to 7.1 +/- 0.8%, P < 0.001) compared with the
control group (7.4 +/- 0.9% to 7.6 +/- 1.0%, P = 0.03). Furthermore, we observed 
a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as
improvements in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol and
triglyceride levels in the intervention group. Furthermore, there was a
significant increase in adiponectin levels in the intervention group compared
with the control group, although high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and
interleukin-6 levels did not change in either group.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel UCDC system presented in this paper improved multiple
metabolic parameters simultaneously in overweight patients with both Type 2
diabetes and hypertension.

PMID: 19538239  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

